README.md, before:

rsnapshot in Docker
===================

This Docker image allows you to run a (continuous) rsnapshot backup.
The logic is to perform a local backup from either a local folder or a remote server.

It allows the following customization:


Volumes
-------

Using the volume `/backup` you provide the target folder for the backups.
This is mandatory, otherwise backups are done into the ephemeral container disk space.

Using the volume `/data` you can provide the data which shall be backed up.
This is necessary for performing backups from a local folder and can be ignored for remote backups.

File Mounts
-----------

The Docker image also expects a few file mounts. They are optional.

Using the volume `/ssh-id` you can provide at runtime an SSH ID.
This is necessary for performing backups from a remote server and can be ignored for local backups.

Using the volume `/backup.cfg` you can add more backup steps.
The content is a list of `backup` statements (or other statements from the `rsnapshot` configuration file).


Environment
-----------

**`BACKUP_NAME`**
This is the name of the backup source you are backing up. Default is `localhost` and it will be used as the name of the subfolder (under the `daily.X` etc folders) in the `/backup` volume.

**`BACKUP_SOURCE`**
This is the name of the backup source you are backing up. Default is `/data` which matches the name of the expected volume for local backups; for remote server backups the syntax should be `user@server:/folder`.

**`BACKUP_OPTS`**
This allows you to add further `rsnapshot` options to the backup. The default value is `one_fs=1` which will make the backup not cross over filesystems.

**`BACKUP_SSH_ARGS`**
This allows you to provide additional values for `ssh_args`. One example could be providing a non-standard port with `-p 222`.

**`BACKUP_HOURLY`**
This specifies the number of hourly backups to keep. The default value is `0` which means no hourly backups are performed.

**`BACKUP_DAILY`**
This specifies the number of daily backups to keep. The default value is `3`.

**`BACKUP_WEEKLY`**
This specifies the number of weekly backups to keep. The default value is `3`.

**`BACKUP_MONTHLY`**
This specifies the number of monthly backups to keep. The default value is `3`.

**`BACKUP_YEARLY`**
This specifies the number of yearly backups to keep. The default value is `3`.

**`CRON_HOURLY`**
This specifies the crontab pattern when the hourly
backup shall be performed.
The default value is `0 * * * *`, i.e. every full hour.
_This setting only is relevant if `BACKUP_HOURLY` is set to a non-zero
value._

**`CRON_DAILY`**
This specifies the crontab pattern when the daily
backup shall be performed.
The default value is `30 23 * * *`, i.e. at 23:30 (11:30 pm) every night.
_This setting only is relevant if `BACKUP_HOURLY` is set to a non-zero
value._

**`CRON_WEEKLY`**
This specifies the crontab pattern when the weekly
backup shall be performed.
The default value is `0 23 * * 0`, i.e. at 23:00 (11pm) every Sunday.
_This setting only is relevant if `BACKUP_WEEKLY` is set to a non-zero
value._

**`CRON_MONTHLY`**
This specifies the crontab pattern when the monthly
backup shall be performed.
The default value is `30 22 1 * *`, i.e. at 22:30 (10:30 pm) every first of the month.
_This setting only is relevant if `BACKUP_MONTHLY` is set to a non-zero
value._

**`CRON_YEARLY`**
This specifies the crontab pattern when the yearly
backup shall be performed.
The default value is `0 22 1 1 *`, i.e. at 22:00 (10pm) every first January.
_This setting only is relevant if `BACKUP_YEARLY` is set to a non-zero
value._

**`TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`**
This specifies the Telegram bot token for report `/var/log/rsnapshot`.
If not specifies, report will be disabled

**`CHATROOM_ID`**
This specifies the Telegram chatroom id.
If not specifies, report will be disabled

**`REPORT_HEAD`**
This specifies the header of report message.
If not specifies, report will be disabled

Example
-------

Perform local backup of `/etc`, into `/srv/backup`, naming it `etc-folder`:
```
docker run -d -v /etc:/data -v /srv/backup:/backup \
           -e BACKUP_NAME=etc-folder helmuthb/rsnapshot 
```

Perform remote backup of a remote server `example.com`, filesystem `/home` into `/src/backup`, naming it `remote`:
```
docker run -d -v $HOME/.ssh/id_rsa:/ssh-id \
           -v /srv/backup:/backup \
           -e BACKUP_NAME=remote \
           -e BACKUP_SOURCE=root@example.com \
           helmuthb/rsnapshot
```

Add a local configuration file `backup.cfg` with more backups:
```
backup		/etc	etc-folder/
backup		/boot	boot-folder/
backup		/home	home-folder/
```
```
docker run -d -v backup.cfg:/backup.cfg -v /srv/backup:/backup \
           -e BACKUP_NAME=root -e BACKUP_SOURCE=/ helmuthb/rsnapshot
```

How to build
---
Clone this repository and
```bash
sudo docker build . -t semteul/rsnapshot:1.0.0
```

Commit message:

Add: RSYNC_NICE, RSYNC_IONICE options

README.md, after:

rsnapshot in Docker
===================

This Docker image allows you to run a (continuous) rsnapshot backup.
The logic is to perform a local backup from either a local folder or a remote server.

It allows the following customization:


Volumes
-------

Using the volume `/backup` you provide the target folder for the backups.
This is mandatory, otherwise backups are done into the ephemeral container disk space.

Using the volume `/data` you can provide the data which shall be backed up.
This is necessary for performing backups from a local folder and can be ignored for remote backups.

File Mounts
-----------

The Docker image also expects a few file mounts. They are optional.

Using the volume `/ssh-id` you can provide at runtime an SSH ID.
This is necessary for performing backups from a remote server and can be ignored for local backups.

Using the volume `/backup.cfg` you can add more backup steps.
The content is a list of `backup` statements (or other statements from the `rsnapshot` configuration file).


Environment
-----------

**`BACKUP_NAME`**
This is the name of the backup source you are backing up. Default is `localhost` and it will be used as the name of the subfolder (under the `daily.X` etc folders) in the `/backup` volume.

**`BACKUP_SOURCE`**
This is the name of the backup source you are backing up. Default is `/data` which matches the name of the expected volume for local backups; for remote server backups the syntax should be `user@server:/folder`.

**`BACKUP_OPTS`**
This allows you to add further `rsnapshot` options to the backup. The default value is `one_fs=1` which will make the backup not cross over filesystems.

**`BACKUP_SSH_ARGS`**
This allows you to provide additional values for `ssh_args`. One example could be providing a non-standard port with `-p 222`.

**`BACKUP_HOURLY`**
This specifies the number of hourly backups to keep. The default value is `0` which means no hourly backups are performed.

**`BACKUP_DAILY`**
This specifies the number of daily backups to keep. The default value is `3`.

**`BACKUP_WEEKLY`**
This specifies the number of weekly backups to keep. The default value is `3`.

**`BACKUP_MONTHLY`**
This specifies the number of monthly backups to keep. The default value is `3`.

**`BACKUP_YEARLY`**
This specifies the number of yearly backups to keep. The default value is `3`.

**`CRON_HOURLY`**
This specifies the crontab pattern when the hourly
backup shall be performed.
The default value is `0 * * * *`, i.e. every full hour.
_This setting only is relevant if `BACKUP_HOURLY` is set to a non-zero
value._

**`CRON_DAILY`**
This specifies the crontab pattern when the daily
backup shall be performed.
The default value is `30 23 * * *`, i.e. at 23:30 (11:30 pm) every night.
_This setting only is relevant if `BACKUP_HOURLY` is set to a non-zero
value._

**`CRON_WEEKLY`**
This specifies the crontab pattern when the weekly
backup shall be performed.
The default value is `0 23 * * 0`, i.e. at 23:00 (11pm) every Sunday.
_This setting only is relevant if `BACKUP_WEEKLY` is set to a non-zero
value._

**`CRON_MONTHLY`**
This specifies the crontab pattern when the monthly
backup shall be performed.
The default value is `30 22 1 * *`, i.e. at 22:30 (10:30 pm) every first of the month.
_This setting only is relevant if `BACKUP_MONTHLY` is set to a non-zero
value._

**`CRON_YEARLY`**
This specifies the crontab pattern when the yearly
backup shall be performed.
The default value is `0 22 1 1 *`, i.e. at 22:00 (10pm) every first January.
_This setting only is relevant if `BACKUP_YEARLY` is set to a non-zero
value._

**`RSYNC_NICE`**
This specifies the nice value for rsync.
The default value is `19`.
_This setting only is relevant if `RSYNC_IONICE` is set to a non-zero
value._
Available values are `-20` (highest priority) to `19` (lowest priority). [https://linux.die.net/man/1/nice](https://linux.die.net/man/1/nice)

**`RSYNC_IONICE`**
This specifies the ionice value for rsync.
The default value is `3`.
_This setting only is relevant if `RSYNC_IONICE` is set to a non-zero
value._
Available values are `0` (None), `1` (Realtime), `2` (Best Effort), `3` (Idle). [https://linux.die.net/man/1/ionice](https://linux.die.net/man/1/ionice)

**`TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`**
This specifies the Telegram bot token for report `/var/log/rsnapshot`.
If not specifies, report will be disabled

**`CHATROOM_ID`**
This specifies the Telegram chatroom id.
If not specifies, report will be disabled

**`REPORT_HEAD`**
This specifies the header of report message.
If not specifies, report will be disabled

Example
-------

Perform local backup of `/etc`, into `/srv/backup`, naming it `etc-folder`:
```
docker run -d -v /etc:/data -v /srv/backup:/backup \
           -e BACKUP_NAME=etc-folder helmuthb/rsnapshot 
```

Perform remote backup of a remote server `example.com`, filesystem `/home` into `/src/backup`, naming it `remote`:
```
docker run -d -v $HOME/.ssh/id_rsa:/ssh-id \
           -v /srv/backup:/backup \
           -e BACKUP_NAME=remote \
           -e BACKUP_SOURCE=root@example.com \
           helmuthb/rsnapshot
```

Add a local configuration file `backup.cfg` with more backups:
```
backup		/etc	etc-folder/
backup		/boot	boot-folder/
backup		/home	home-folder/
```
```
docker run -d -v backup.cfg:/backup.cfg -v /srv/backup:/backup \
           -e BACKUP_NAME=root -e BACKUP_SOURCE=/ helmuthb/rsnapshot
```

How to build
---
Clone this repository and
```bash
sudo docker build . -t semteul/rsnapshot:1.0.0
```
